[Music]
ten easy ways to train a new puppy if
you really adore your puppy
but his barking chewing and incorrect
behaviors are driving you crazy there's
no need to despair not everyone has the
resources to get their puppies
professionally house trained but luckily
there are lots of things you can do at
home to get the job done to ensure you
aren't left at the end of your rope or
leash
keep watching to learn the do's and
don'ts of puppy training and don't
forget to click the subscribe button and
turn on notifications to join us on the
bright side of life
number 10 don't yell at the puppy it can
be hard to stay calm when your puppy has
chewed through the cables of your laptop
or won't stop barking and it usually
happens when you need to finish a work
assignment at home or just want some
peace and quiet if you yell you risk
damaging the precious bond you have with
your puppy dogs are very in tune with
humans so an increase in your tone of
voice could stress him out and make him
more anxious ironically it could have
the opposite effect you intended making
him more excited about the situation he
could understand that barking is good
since you are barking to number nine do
be firm the big puppy dog eyes looking
up at you might deter you from saying
anything to your puppy when he
misbehaves however to teach him good
behavior you need to be firm puppies
need a leader of the pack and if they
see you as too easygoing or flexible
they won't be motivated to learn to
behave better that's why it's important
to use a stern voice if you're trying to
reprimand them but without yelling the
puppy will be mindful of your tone of
voice and see you as an authority figure
the best thing to do is speak to the
puppy with a simple word he understands
next time your puppy's trying to climb
the couch just give him a firm no
number-8 don't get physical using or
threatening pain are never good ways to
house train your puppy these behaviors
only teach dogs to fear their owners and
to lose the natural trust they have in
you even if you don't physically harm
your puppy the use of a shock collar
also teaches them to respond in fear
threatening pain by stomping your foot
close to the puppy sends him a direct
message that you should be perceived as
a threat
keep your bond with your puppy strong
and healthy by avoiding getting physical
at all costs number seven do give your
puppy a time out a time out is a great
technique to teach your puppy to stop
doing something annoying or aggressive
next time your puppy's Rochas barking is
driving you over the edge or you catch
him being too rough with another pet
simply put him in a dog crate or take
him to a location he'll find boring this
could be a bathroom or bedroom just make
sure the location is safe the puppy
should stay there for two to three
minutes no longer than that every time
he misbehaves say the words timeout to
the puppy and place him in the same
place in this way he'll understand that
bad behaviors lead to being away from
toys and people number six
don't stare down at your puppy if you
are speaking to a child who'd misbehaved
eye contact would be important to
emphasize the seriousness of the
situation but to a dog direct and
prolonged staring can be threatening so
it's not an effective method to educate
him your puppy can look at your eyes
when he expects a treat when he's
waiting for food or when he wants to go
for a walk but if you stare
your puppy can get uncomfortable just as
humans do in this case you can expect
him to bring his body close to the
ground look away and do everything he
can to disengage from you because he
will see you as intimidating staring
makes the lesson you are trying to
impart much more difficult for the puppy
to receive number five do address biting
and nipping according to Cesar's way the
website for the famous Dog Whisperer
Cesar Millan a good technique to stop
your puppy from nibbling or biting can
be to respond with a dog's Yelp when a
puppy plays with other puppies and it
bites too hard the other dog will Yelp
which causes the biter to release the
bite if a puppy bites you you can
recreate this Yelp to teach him that
it's not okay another technique is to
give the puppy a chew toy when you see
he intends to bite you
this will show him which things are ok
to bite and which things aren't number 4
don't expect your puppy to know where to
go potty a puppy needs a very strict
routine to become potty trained a dog's
digestive system can be very regular and
they tend to need to relieve themselves
5 to 30 minutes after eating if your
schedule looks a bit hectic your puppy
eats at different times of the day or
you can't walk him at regular times you
can expect to find a smelly mess when
you get home from time to time as an
owner you'll need to establish a very
strict routine for when your puppy eats
and when you take him out for walks
number three do be consistent
if yesterday you gave your puppy a
timeout for unnecessary barking and
today you're letting it slide the puppy
will get mixed signals and won't learn
to correct the behavior common examples
include letting your dog sleep on your
bed on some days but not on others
letting him scratch the dining table on
occasion
letting him bark at the doorbell some of
the time and letting him chew on some
inappropriate objects but not on others
that level of inconsistency will cause
the puppy to become confused about the
boundaries he needs to respect therefore
being consistent is important even if
it's tiring at first the good news is
that with discipline the puppy will
learn really fast usually within 4 to 6
months
in that time most puppies will
differentiate between right and wrong
and become house trained number 2 don't
reprimand long after the offense if you
come home to discover that your darling
puppy knocked over a precious vos and
you try to reprimand him for something
he did an hour ago
the puppy will have no idea why he's
being admonished you need to punish a
behavior when you catch him doing it
that is the only way the puppy will
connect the bad behavior to the
admonition if you're watching TV when
the puppy begins to chew your shoe
it might look adorable yes but gently
moving him away or moving your foot out
of the way will teach him not to chew on
shoes in the future the key is to
reprimand in the moment number 1 do
educate and reward your puppy puppies
need to learn when they misbehave and
when they do things properly for a puppy
to understand not only bad things but
good ones it's necessary to educate with
this twofold approach if your puppy
stopped chewing on the cushion when you
told him no
then it's time for a treat if your puppy
calmed down after getting a timeout he
deserves a reward if the puppy finally
learned to go potty in the backyard tell
him what a good job he did
just remember to reward actions
immediately after the puppy makes them
now he will associate good behavior with
a reward
bubbies can present quite a lot of
challenges to new pet owners or even to
experienced pet owners since every puppy
comes with their own set of behaviors
and personality traits despite a bit of
mischief puppies can be a great addition
to your family and will be trained in no
time if you follow these recommendations
if you've tried these tips for a few
months and your puppy still insists on
making a wreck of your home talk to your
veterinarian as they might be able to
recommend a professional trainer or
training class so tell us bright ciders
what is the hardest challenge in
training your puppy let us know in the
comments section don't forget to give
this video a like share it with your
friends and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side